LR5: Definitely HCCConcept:100% certainty observation is HCC. LR5 is essentially equivalent to OPTN 5.Definition:Observation with imaging features diagnostic of HCC or proven to be HCC at histology.Criteria:Not definite benign entity, not probable benign entity, not non-HCC malignancy, and as follows:LR 5A (10-19mm mass)Mass with arterial phase hyper-enhancement • 10-19mm mass with ≥ 2 of following:“washout”, “capsule”, threshold growthLR 5B (≥ 20mm mass)Mass with arterial phase hyper-enhancement≥ 20mm mass with ≥ 1 of following: “washout”,“capsule”, threshold growth

Reporting:Must be reported.Management:Treatment without biopsy is appropriate.Contributes to radiologic T-staging.May provide HCC exception points for determining priority on liver transplantation list. See OPTN policy 3.6.4.4.
Comments:Note that LR5 observations must have diameter ≥ 10mm.Rationale: < 10mm masses are unlikely to be HCC, difficult to characterize at CT and MRI and, if resection/explantation is performed, difficult to co-localize on imaging and pathology. Hence, < 10mm masses cannot be diagnosed at CT or MRI with 100% certainty as HCC. Close follow-up will allow LR5A categorization once diameter exceeds 10 mm.This also maintains congruency with OPTN classification, which does not allow <10mm masses to be classified OPTN 5.



LR5 Treated: Treated HCCConcept:A loco-regionally treated HCC.Definition:LR5A or 5B observation or biopsy-proven HCC lesion that has undergone loco-regional treatment (i.e., was ablated or embolized).Reporting:Must be reported.Management:LR5 Treated observations require close follow up to assess treatment response.If close follow up indicates persistent/recurrent tumor, LR5 Treated observations may require re-treatment.LR5 Treated observations qualify for continued priority points predicated on their pre-treatment categorization. See OPTN policy 3.6.4.4.Criteria for assessing treatment response:These criteria are in development.

Comments:LR 5 Treated applies only to LR5 observations or biopsy-proven HCCs that were ablated or located within a region of the liver that was embolized.To maintain congruency between LI-RADS and OPTN, LR5 Treated does not apply toLR≤4 observations that have undergone loco- regional treatment.Observations treated only with systemic therapies.Observations that have been resected.Observations located outside the ablationzone or embolization field.LR5 Treated does not imply that loco-regional treatment was successful or that residual or recurrent HCC is absent.Observations undergoing systemic therapy should be assigned their pre-treatment LI-RADS category regardless of treatment-related changes in imaging features; the pre-treatment LI-RADS category should not be downgraded.

LR5V: Definitely HCC with Tumor in veinConcept:100% certainty observation is HCC invading vein.Definition:Observation with imaging features diagnostic of HCC invading vein.Criterion:Definite enhancing soft tissue in vein. 
Reporting:Must be reported.Management:Treatment without biopsy is appropriate.Denotes radiologic T-stage 4b.Contraindication to liver transplantation.

Comments:LR5V applies even if parenchymal component of mass is not identified at imaging.The term tumor in vein is preferred over the term tumor thrombus.Rationale: the pathological spectrum ranges from thrombus with scant tumor cells to solid tumor with scant thrombus.While not diagnostic of tumor in vein, features that may alert radiologist to diagnosis include: Occluded vein with any of the following:Moderately to markedly expanded lumenIll-defined wallsRestricted diffusionContiguity with LR5 observationObscured, partially visualized veinHeterogeneous enhancement of vein notattributable to mixing artifactBy comparison, non-tumoral bland thrombus does not enhance and usually does not expand lumen to same degree as tumor in vein.


OM: Other MalignancyConcept:High probability that observation is a malignancy other than HCC.Definition:Observation with features suggestive of non-HCC malignancy.Reporting:Must be reported.Management:Variable, depending on clinical history and type of malignancy suspected.Appropriate management may include close follow up, additional imaging, biopsy, or treatment.Does not contribute to radiologic T-staging and does not provide HCC exception points for determining priority on liver transplantation list, unless tissue sampling with histology analysis establishes a diagnosis of HCC. See OPTN policy 3.6.4.4.


